docs(tutorial): dedibox to elastic metal - MTA-1725 (#364)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/migrate-dedibox-to-elastic-metal/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to transsfer your data from Dedibox to Elastic Metal
  description: This tutorial provides information how to migrate your existing data from a Dedibox to a Elastic Metal server
content:
  h1: How to transsfer your data from Dedibox to Elastic Metal
  paragraph: This tutorial provides information how to migrate your existing data from a Dedibox to a Elastic Metal server
tags: compute dedibox elastic-metal transfer migration 
categories:
  - compute
  - elastic-metal
dates:
  validation: 2022-01-25
  posted: 2022-01-25
---

## Data migration from Dedibox to Elastic Metal

This tutorial provides information how to migrate your existing data from a Dedibox to a Elastic Metal server. Its purpose is to guide you in your migration to the resources that best fit your needs for improved stability, performance and reliability. 

> We use duplicity to encrypt the backup and to upload it to Object Storage. Then we download and decrypt the data on the Elastic Metal server.

Reviewer: lien vers Duplicity ?

> We use duplicity to encrypt the backup and to upload it to Object Storage. Then we download and decrypt the data on the Elastic Metal server.

Author: ```suggestion
We use [Duplicity](https://duplicity.gitlab.io/duplicity-web/) to encrypt the backup and to upload it to Object Storage. Then we download and decrypt the data on the Elastic Metal server.
```

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- You have a Dedibox server
- You have [created](/compute/elastic-metal/how-to/create-server/) and [installed](/compute/elastic-metal/how-to/install-server/) a Elastic Metal server.

</Message>

## Creating an Object Storage bucket

> 1. Log in to the Scaleway Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the Scaleway Console.
```

2. Click **Storage** from the left side menu. The Storage page lists all your buckets. At first, your list is empty as you have not created any bucket yet.
3. Click **Create a Bucket** to create a bucket that will store your objects.
4. Name your bucket and validate your bucket creation. A bucket name must be unique and contain only alphanumeric and lowercase characters.

## Installing software requirements on the Dedibox server

<Message type="note">

To make sure we can generate a GPG Key, we need to create some entropy. We suggest using [Haveged](https://github.com/jirka-h/haveged) constantly on your sever to generate a small amount of entropy.

</Message>

Run the following command to update the apt package manager, upgrade the software installed already installed on the server and to download and install Duplicity:

```sh
apt update && apt upgrade
apt install -y python3-boto python3-pip haveged gettext librsync-dev
wget https://launchpad.net/duplicity/0.8-series/0.8.21/+download/duplicity-0.8.21.tar.gz
tar xaf duplicity-0.8.*.tar.gz
cd duplicity-0.8.*/
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
python3 setup.py install
```

<Message type="tip">

> In the command above we download Duplicity version `0.8.21`. You may check the [Duplicity](https://duplicity.gitlab.io/duplicity-web/) website for the latest version of the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the command above we download Duplicity version `0.8.21`. Check the [Duplicity](https://duplicity.gitlab.io/duplicity-web/) website for the latest version of the tool.
```

</Message>

### Creating a GPG key

1. To generate the GPG key, launch this command.
    ```sh
    gpg --full-generate-key
    ```
    Enter and remember a passphrase. You will be asked to define the characteristics of your key. We will go with default settings:

    * What kind of key you want: (1) RSA and RSA (default)
    * What keysize do you want: (3072)
    * How long the key should be valid: 0 = key does not expire
    * GPG will then ask how to call your key, an address and a description.

2. You need to use the GPG Key fingerprint, it could be an 8, 16 or 40 char long hash. You can also find the fingerprint of your key with the command:
    ```
    $ gpg --list-keys
    gpg: checking the trustdb
    gpg: marginals needed: 3  completes needed: 1  trust model: pgp
    gpg: depth: 0  valid: 1  signed: 0  trust: 0-, 0q, 0n, 0m, 0f, 1u
    /home/me/.gnupg/pubring.kbx
    ------------------------------

    pub   rsa3072 2022-01-25 [SC]
    XXXXXXXXXXXXX-FINGERPRINT-XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    uid         [ultimate] backups (Scaleway Object Storage backups) <me@scaleway.com>
    sub   rsa3072 2022-01-25 [E]
    ```

>  ### Transferring the PGP key to the Elastic Metal server 

Reviewer: espace en trop pour le titre non ?

>  ### Transferring the PGP key to the Elastic Metal server 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transferring the PGP key to the Elastic Metal server 
```

  python3 setup.py install
  ```

2. Import the GPG key on the Elastic Metal server: 

  ```
  gpg --import my-key.asc
  ```
3. Create the required folders and a configuration file for Duplicity:

    ```
    touch scw-restore.sh .scw-configrc
    chmod 700 scw-restore.sh
    chmod 600 .scw-configrc

    mkdir -p /var/log/duplicity
    touch /var/log/duplicity/logfile{.log,-recent.log}
    ```

4. Add the following lines to `.scw-configrc`:
    ```sh
    # Scaleway credentials keys
    export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<SCALEWAY ACCESS KEY>"
    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<SCALEWAY SECRET ACCESS KEY>"
    export SCW_BUCKET="s3://s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/<NAME OF YOUR BUCKET>"

    # GPG Key information
    export PASSPHRASE="<YOUR GPG KEY PASSPHRASE>"
    export GPG_FINGERPRINT="<YOUR GPG KEY FINGERPRINT>"

    # Folder to backup
    export SOURCE="<PATH TO FOLDER TO BACKUP>"

    # Log files
    export LOGFILE_RECENT="/var/log/duplicity/logfile-recent.log"
    export LOGFILE="/var/log/duplicity/logfile.log"

    log () {
      date=`date +%Y-%m-%d`
      hour=`date +%H:%M:%S`
      echo "$date $hour $*" >> ${LOGFILE_RECENT}
    }
    export -f log
    ```

> 4. Edit the file `scw-restore.sh`, and add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Edit the file `scw-restore.sh`, and add the following:
```

  ```sh
  #!/bin/bash
  source .scw-configrc

  echo -e "Downloading full backup to:" $1

  duplicity \
    --time 0D \
    ${SCW_BUCKET} $1
  ```

> 5. Download the data from your bucket to the Elastic Metal server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Download the data from your bucket to the Elastic Metal server:
```

  ```
  ./scw-restore.sh /tmp/backup-recovery/
  ```

> Once downloaded you can move the data to it's final destination on your new machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once downloaded you can move the data to its final destination onto your new machine. 
```

<Message type="tip">

> You can use duplicity also for regular and incremental backups of your data on the Object Storage platform. Follow our tutorial [How to backup your dedicated server on Object Storage with Duplicity](/tutorials/backup-dedicated-server-s3-duplicity/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Duplicity also for regular and incremental backups of your data on the Object Storage platform. Follow our tutorial [How to backup your dedicated server on Object Storage with Duplicity](/tutorials/backup-dedicated-server-s3-duplicity/) for more information.
```
